[Back](./blog.md)

## If I can redo undergrad...

I guess early morning meetings provokes introspections. I work now as a math modeler/software engineer at Northrop Grumman as well as being a part time research associate at Argonne National Lab. Meanwhile, I am still working on an unfinished project with Prof. Thomas at Case. I enjoy my work, hence, I have no complaints even though it's perhaps a bit much on the plate. However, I do feel like I never have time dedicated to strictly learning or just sink in a pool of thought (unless I reduce my burn-out prevention protocol of minimal-work-Saturday). I really like reading and doing exercises from books (in fact, I have a whole queue of books lined up), but the sheer mass of work that necessarily goes to projects is, well, there; Argonne is paying me after all. 

If I can redo undergrad, I will take on less projects at a time. Let me begin with a disclaimer: I do not regret any decision. I learned a lot from each project, and none was a waste of time (even ones that were abandoned). I was able to get this job at NG probably because of these projects. I got to know many wonderful researchers that I sincerely look up to. However, knowing that I eventually went back to the field of interest I (more-or-less) started with, I would much rather cut some of these times dedicated to a variety of projects off to making sure my fundamentals -- it be course material or research -- are solid by having dedicated time to, quite literally, studying. 

My first college summer was great. I was doing a research project in the day and read Ross's _A First Course in Probability_ at night. I actually finished it. Many things and tricks I learned are still grilled into my head today. The last summer was less great, but also pretty good. I had my Argonne internship in the day, and I split my nights working on the project with Prof. Thomas and reaing Cinlar's _Probability and Stochastics_. I made the mistake of shutting myself inside a building for 12 hours straight every day. This is a really bad idea. I was mentally exhausted until, for the last two weeks, I decided to go out for dinner (didn't have a kitchen) and work elsewhere at night. I like having an office that I dedicate to work, but leaving the office and fully detach from work-mode is also important. The summer from my sophomore to junior year, as well as times when classes are going on in conjuction to projects, was not good. I was just buried in work and not studying. As a consequence, I learn an subset of materials enough to be fluent, but as projects grow and start to extend outside of the initial set of knowledge, I find myself struggling to keep up a little. To catch up, I have to incorporate only the necessary studying, which again doesn't solve the fundamental problem, adding more work and even reducing time for my leisurely self-study.

As my appointment at Argonne comes to a close, I will hopefully have a lot more time (a whooping 20 hours a week) on my hands to dedicate to my own academic endevours not motivated by projects. I can revert back to the state of "I do this only because I'm interested" and not working for anyone but myself. That's what draws me to wanting a graduate degree (and the path of becoming a researcher/academic) in the first place. 